Thank you very much, everyone, again. Thank you very much again for your participation
and coming. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Welcome, everyone. Again, thanks
for coming. Today, again, I think we are going to begin teaching on the great Masada and
great Terton Dudjom Lingpa. We are going to begin, "According My Capabilities." We explore.
And again, of course, you can also read. There is already, I understood, that already translated
this book, very well-known scholar, Alan Wallace, translated all that so you can explore more
from those books. However, I will go with my capabilities according to what I can tell
and what I can offer to you as to reminding and some degree to kind of reconnecting to
the teaching, to the lineage, to the practice, or some degree, maybe some small degree, clar
ifications,
what I'm going to talk about. Hopefully, that's my intention and that's my place. And again,
to begin this is, of course, is teaching of the Bodhﾄ…aktamﾄ）at, the greatest, kindest,
compared to the teacher of the Bodhﾄ…aktamﾄ）at teaching. So therefore, this teaching is so
precious, so special, really so marvelous, everywhere. Everywhere. Therefore, this is
not just so accidental. We are connected to this. Truly, we are connected to this teaching.
In past times, today, in a way, we are activating the deepening of this knowledge. For that
reason, for the great joy. Again, this is not just joy, but motivation is so important.
We like to receive the teaching, observe that teaching into the heart, and like to get benefit.
As teaching mentioned, teaching said, all the great masters said, one after another,
and we like to get, we have to correct the motivation. What that means? Because we can't
keep a regular mundane conception, mundane conception of the dualities, emotions, self-important,
to the ego clings. That won't work very well. Even we are receiving the natural of the teaching
of practice and natural teaching, it will go out. It will out. That means natural, when
you pull, if the contain is not prepared nicely, it will fail out, or go out is wasted. Therefore,
to do that is all in our hand. It's not somebody have to do that for us. We have to activate
it, prepare ourselves. It's not something also we have to make big effort externally
to do these and that thing. But in the teaching, it's motivation, intention. Everything is
dependent on the intention. Mind is powerful. Mind is instrumental. Mind is a direct tool.
Mind lead everything. Lead to the samsara, lead to the nirvana or the enlightenment. It's
nobody else's mind we are talking. Our own mind, your mind, my mind. So therefore, thinking
to benefit ourself, to myself or others, to benefit to others too, we have to make strong
ourselves, right correction, motivation. This motivation is also nothing strange. It's not
something Buddhist or dogma or strange things I have to do now, Buddhism. Buddhism is just
the goodness of our quality. Whether we are believers, whether we don't believe, we always
talk the goodness, good. Good is not coming outside or there is nothing kind of created
good things or we have to grab. It's all in this mind. So correct the motivation. Which
motivation is as I said, it's a symbol. Joy in the appreciation. Joy in the appreciation.
Joy in the appreciation to the Buddha, to the Dharma, to the Sangha and joy in the appreciation
to the teaching that we are receiving. We are going to practice. Teaching is also not
something or I have to burden or because I'm practicing Dharma, I have to be joy and appreciate
something to the Dharma. Actually, think of Dharma. What is really Dharma? Dharma is no
other than our goodness, your love, your kindness, your compassion, make ourselves more meaningful,
more happy, more peaceful, more kind of like richness of our life. That is Dharma. Buddha
did not give something that strange things you have to do in order to make yourself.
That's what Buddha himself, the gracious teacher, Buddha himself said, I show you the path.
I show the path. Technic. It's all for you. You, how you put. This is what we do. The
motivation is really so important and I mentioned that quite a few times and you also know.
Every teacher explaining that. Every master when you go to the teaching, the greater masters,
they always said, so motivation is mind. And among the motivation, so many motivation,
the motivation mind has so many, many mind towards the conservatives, it arises endless.
But among there is something meaningful, something special that benefit to me, to the other beings
or some make happy ourselves, peace for ourselves, not always kind of tired and anxiety and
skeptical
and doubt, hesitation and fears, F-E-A-R, fears and always no doubt and all that. Those are
the mundane world duality. We had that so many times. We are saturated with that. But according
Buddhism from the biggest time until now, now what we call here, sometimes in American expression,
enough is another thing. And we have the really mind in our, in heart and brain, we have to reset
the mind. So joy and the appreciation is simple. We have a lot of reason to be happy in joy,
glorify that, not always kind of missing, not one, not enough, this and that, that is ego.
Really ego, self-important, that is ego maniacs. That's what I really did. We should bring more joy
and more appreciation, celebrate of our life, the richness we have. That is what, that is called
practitioners. We're not out of the practitioners. We are the center, the very foundation of the
Dharma. Joy and appreciation, joy and appreciation of our life, our situation and circumstances,
joy and appreciation of the teachings. And according to the Buddha teaching, we have
18 endowment that we know. We all have, it's not just a methodology, stories, truly we have.
Everything counted one after another, 18 things we have. Really, plus we have more.
So joy and appreciation is the first motivation. Second motivation is then bodhicitta. We are all
the practitioners of Mahayana. Generally Buddha teaching is nonviolence, violence, peace and
harmony to all the beings, but specifically in Mahayana, Mahayana highlighted bodhicitta,
low and kind as a compared thought. Again, this is not just something that we do, have to do,
bodhicitta to help or to please someone. Bodhicitta is our mind and we have really bodhicitta.
We will be happy. We will be rich. Heart is rich, really rich. We become billionaire of the,
billionaires, not multi-billionaires. Really we have the heart rich, love and compassion.
Come, we leave, we take that rich, not just leave behind, we take rich that rich, we go with
according to the Buddha teachings and teachings of Sambhava. We will be rich in this life,
we will be rich in the pardo, we will be rich in the future lives. So there are bodhicitta.
Again, bodhicitta is something kind of all different things. No, what is bodhicitta?
Loving kindness, compassion, the wisdom, combined together to all the living beings, to really wish
good things. That is bodhicitta and that is important. That is the foundation. Even we
practice the zukin and we don't have this motivation. It really won't work. It won't work.
We've been practicing so long, nothing happened. But we say that too. Myself think too that.
Because why? Because we're lacking those fundamental qualities.
Really lacking. Therefore, if we activated those, this joy and appreciation, bodhicitta,
teachings will make so perfect meaning and bring up the result. And we really will become as like
follower of the guru and Sambhava, Buddha Hijak Devani, all those great masters. Truly,
we lined up with that. We have to follow with the path. No return path. That is what we really do.
That means no return to the samsara or no return to the three low rams. The hell rams,
hunger ghost rams, and animal rams. We will. We have no return. One path, straight path. We are
on highway of the enlightenment. Peace and harmony and joy and humble and simple, yet
rich and very uplifting, very encouragement. Really, we will be. So that is bodhicitta. That is for
Mahayana practicing. Not just only Sattar Mahayana and Vaidyayana Mahayana too. Bodhicitta is a
foundation. With this and then above that, Vaidyayana teaching often talks. Everything is
enlightened state. Even though we don't see as enlightened, but reality, everything is
enlightened and Buddha status. All the forms are enlightened. All the sound systems are enlightened
.
And all the mind and space are enlightened. Everything enlightens state. So, since we are
practicing Vaidyayana, since we are practicing Vaidyayana is what? Immediately connected to the
result, the final goal. Therefore, it is called result yana. Sattar yana is kind of in the teaching
state, causal yana. It takes a long time to get the result. You're working for the cause and
condition, but Vaidyayana teaching is immediately to jumping to the goal of the enlightenment.
That means Buddhahood, kuzhampi. So, therefore, activating those qualities, those realizations,
not just waiting. Again, it's power of the mind. When we motivated that,
it will come according to the teaching. So, therefore, we should have activated those qualities
as much as we can. And see, all enlightenment in the Dokki teachings, everything is,
all is in the Tariqaya status. And Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya status. That means all
subject in Dharmakaya or that Tariqaya status, and object of the eye in the Tariqaya status.
There is no partitions between that. It's all in that status in the teaching state.
So, activated all those visual motivations and visual thoughts. Now, we go with these teachings.
Again, this teaching with those visual motivations, and now we go to the teaching. But in order to
go
teaching, again, I talked a little bit about how the teachings came. And, of course, generally,
again, as I said already, is teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni, the Great Buddha Shakyamuni,
who came to Thoden about 600 years ago. He gave varieties of the teachings. What that means?
Variety teachings means that everyone is not excluded. Because everyone inherited the Buddha
nature, the potential enlightenment. Therefore, Buddha showed the technique and path to discovering
that potential according to their readiness, and finally to discover full bloom,
blooming, or bloom of the Buddhahood. That's what he taught. And for those reasons, in the teaching
,
say, in the Nyingma schools of the Buddhism, there were about nine jhana teachings,
nine different levels of teachings. And not just even that, even before that, what Buddha gave the
teaching, the teachings on the human beings and God's realms, teachings. That means what? That
means
because the Buddha gave the teaching that can connect with it to have the, discover the higher
potentials of the, of their, their qualities to take the rebirth in the human realms, and as well
as God's realms. Those other teachings said in Sanskrit word, I'm not really good at Sanskrit,
but about you, that's word. Manusha yana and deva yanas. Manusha yana is human beings,
and deva is God's yana. So that means what are those yanas? Those are basic goodness,
that was goodness. For example, for example, 10 virtues, three by the, I'm not going to release,
you all know that, three by the body, four by the speech, and three by the mind, all together,
known as 10 virtues, 10 virtues. Oppo said that is 10 non-virtues, that you know, 10 virtues
is not just kind of an exception to the Buddhism. According to Buddhism, that is human,
every human, a decent human really believes, follow with that. That's the Buddha taught.
That is the foundation of all the teachings. Buddha teaching is best, best on the good
contract, the good nature of the way things are involved and then improved or expanded, developed.
So 10 virtues. And then to get with that, such as, and so with that, for example, those parameters,
also people do those. Even non-Buddhist has parameters, not transcendental parameters,
but parameters. Those are known as, also, what are those parameters? Of course,
many of you already know, but generosity, moralities, patience,
and joyful effort, concentration, wisdoms, they have, everyone believe those, everyone do those,
everyone do generosity, everyone do good conduct, everyone talking, even the political talking
conduct. This really, this all that become so popular, conduct is moralities. And then patience,
patience is also tolerance, patience, those are. And then effort, effort is important.
That is also mentioned. And then the concentration, let me mindfulness, now talking more
mindfulness,
all this. And then wisdom, knowledge, understanding those. That's why the terminology exists at
every
country does, because they have that. It's human value. But Buddha teaching is more expanded,
more stronger, more deeper. But when we have those good qualities of human beings,
what in the teaching says, it will, I mean, everything has a result, cause and result,
it will bring higher rebirth in the next life. Even in this life, we will have good life,
peaceful, more content, more kind of soothing lifetimes. And that result will have good rebirth
in the next life. Not three lower realms, but higher rebirth, such as human realms and God's
realms. Those are really teachings. Those are known as Rigalabas. Above that, then the teaching,
what in teaching, external only teachings, then such as Buddhism. Above that, then the
paramata practices with best upon the transcendental paramata practices, practices.
And then without those are, what means, no ego clings or no attachments and widely performing
that without the discrimination, all those of Buddha's instructors in the teaching mentioned,
then it become high. And that, that goes high and high and deeper and deeper. And those are
known as then Kiavaka Yanas, Pathik Buddha Yanas, and as well as Bodhisattva Yanas, goes high, high
,
and deeper and deeper. And also the realization of those different levels,
such as in human Yana or the world, the good Yanas, they didn't really talk about any emptiness,
anything, nothing. But then in the Hatha Yanas, Hatha Yana, egolessiness. Those are the spiritual
Buddhist teachings, egolessiness. And Pathik Buddha Yana teaching, mentioning, always teaching,
he said, the egoless in the state of the subject and object, the hub of the object.
I'm sorry, I think I mixed it up again. Again, and in Pathik Yana Buddha,
you have the realization of the emptiness of the object and subject is hub of that,
that. So there's always said emptiness, realization of the one and hubs. And in the Mahayana
teaching,
then all the emptiness status. That means it's not just emptiness, completely blank status.
And every true, everything is in the, as a taught teaching, as two truths, two truths,
relate truth is as displays, illusion displays of the absolute truth or related true is the magic
dream and reflection moon in the waters. And as well as as like dream, those are these related
to the existing, but our self, the regular duality or our self, it means clinging, grasping so
strongly that, but reality, it is really like illusions, not just the object is illusion,
but also mind is illusions, subject and object, all illusion status in a relative levels,
all are connected. Also, so many factors, those are known as interdependent
coordination, interconnectedness, or the Indian revenue, I think to be the word, the Indian revenue
,
that all arising and each of those, then the absolute level is in the empty, empty is beyond
existence or empty. There's nothing to hold, but yet it is appearing. Therefore, it's called
magic display, dream-like displays. That is the Mahayana teachings. Really, I'm of course,
you all know, I'm just saying those things as a reminder us to all of them. In the Mahayana
teaching, then that extended, not just only that empty, but now in the teaching, explaining the
our kind of enlightened status, enlightened status on the, not just the empty, but all
this display, related truth, are enlightened status. They are like medallas, those are in
the teaching state. And then when you go to the inner tantrums, then you're clearly explaining
song, poem is enlightened, sound is enlightened, and the mind and the space are enlightened.
Absolute. And then in the Dzokhi teaching said all is a display of the ordinary nature,
very clearly, strongly, ordinary nature of our mind. Each of our mind is created our perception,
our conceptions, is reflecting back. So that means five aggregates, all is creation of each of our
mind or ordinary nature of the mind it created. And that creation, mind is enlightened, therefore
it is creation is enlightened status. Those clearly explaining, explaining. So among these
teachings, that's what the great teacher Buddha taught. At high levels in the teaching say the
teachings are taught as a staircase, staircase. All that staircase, there's nine staircase, or nine
steps, one of, but the first step, the second step is dependent to the first step. Third step
is dependent on the first and second step. So is it dependent? And therefore, therefore in the
teaching say, said what? In the Dzokhi teacher, even, I mean that's getting, remember somebody said
in the teaching, said two things from the Dzokhi teacher and student. Even you have the highest
realization, realization as like sky or the vastness of realization as a sky, yet you will observe
so thoroughly and carefully all the conduct levels. So we should, great practitioners should not
ignore the conduct. Then we are disturbing our realizations and making completely kind of like
contradicting. And that really will make, then delay our realization. So therefore everything is
enlightened state, but yet follow the exactly the same as the way things are, externally,
internally. And for that reason, great master, also Nagarjuna said, if you have the good conduct
of the human beings, then heaven is not far. If you are in heaven, that enlightenment or the
Nirvana
is not far. So it's all connected, all dependent. Every have done not good conduct, then we are
falling back to the samsara. Even you have some of the intellectual understanding of the teachings
and practices that won't really support this. So that's how all is lined up. And now we go with
this,
in this Dunyulungpa's teaching or this teaching where we talk is Dzogchi teachings. And Dzogchi
is again, who taught this Dzogchi teaching? Again, according to Buddhism, the Buddha Shakyamuni
taught
these teachings, not in the regular form Buddha appeared in India, like as with the bagging ball
and or the arms ball with that, that, that customs. Buddha, those who are highly coverabilitist,
readiness Buddha appeared in the Dharmakaya states, Buddha summoned the brothers, or Buddha
registered Dara or the registered Sattva states, and then transmitted this teaching through the
retinue of the Okhana, like retinue of the wisdom. Okhana, like wisdom, retinue of the
wisdom, such as by Diana Buddhist, and as well as all boys, how he taught or how Buddha taught,
not by word, but not by the symbolic, by the wisdom state of the mind.
My personal mind was stated, the mind transmitted without the word and the symbol, everything,
of all the chimi, dongjim, unborn college, unborn colleges, Buddha transmitted,
transmitted, that teaching, those are known as mind to mind transmissions, mind to the mind,
to the mind transmissions. Then also Buddha gave these teachings to the, to the Sambalar levels,
against such a five Diana Buddhas. The Sambalar is also not just a kind of really big signs and
Sambalar is things, but with the magically, magically through the, through the, again some
indications and signs and transmitted teachings to the, to the five Diana Buddhas, and such as then
Vaijapanis, Manjushiris, and, and Avalokiteshoras, all those myths, and that's how Buddha
transmitted.
So that is known, those are known as mind to mind transmission lineage, symbolic transmission
lineage.
Those are the very special terminologies, or special, not terminologies, special systems that
explained in the, in the Nyingma teachings, and those are in the Gohyangar bhatantara, or one of
the
Mahayoga bhatantara, known as Hiju Jamsal, and there said how they transmitted by the mind,
by the symbol, and by the A, transmitted those teachings to that. And then this order transmission
lineage is, then, for example, when that came, and it is purely teaching said, this doki teaching
came
28 years after Buddha's Shakyamuni's Mahapari nirvana, and then he started descending
the, the doki teachings, particularly who discovered is the Garab Doji, or Garab Doji,
one who discovered or bought these doki teachings to these worlds. So then is continually that,
continually, and now the doki teaching itself is divided into three categories, and those are,
of course, we all know, but I'm talking this as, again, to, to, to gratitude of the oldest lineages
,
lineage teachings. So therefore, again, this teaching came through the, through the, from the
Garab Doji, and Garab Doji, according to the teaching, discovered they are or bought over
600,000 doki teachings that he bought. And, and, and then Garab Doji's foremost student is
Manjushiri Madara, and so he received all the teachings, and Manjushiri Madara divided that
doki teaching into three. Of course, you all heard this so many times, and know that
from, maybe from me, and as well as other great masters, I'm sure. And those are known as then,
and mind sections of doki teaching, and space, and beat instructions. Those are three divided.
And Manjushiri Madara's foremost student is Hiri Sanha. And Hiri Sanha, again, received all the
teachings, and he, again, subgrouped this teaching in four different ways, particularly of this
beat instruction of the teachings. Those are known as outer, inner, and cigarette,
and very cigarette, so four different. And this time, what we are practicing in this doki teaching
of the Bdunya Langkwa's teaching, and all the doki, most of the doki teaching is really the,
the beat instruction. Among that, not just the beat instruction, the outer, inner, cigarette,
most essence. The most essence section of the teaching, that's what we really more,
our more mostly we are following that teachings. This teaching is then divided into two groups.
Those are known as Tukkyu practices and Togal practices. You all know, you, I mean, we all
heard that, Tukkyu and Togal practices. This teaching is then, where it is, those are known as,
and there's 17 doki tantaras, that explaining of these, the very sacred sections of these teachings
.
Tzokkyu doki, that's what the teachings say. And, and there is a second one, or third,
another one, that the 18th one is known as tantara of the Ekajati, Ekajati teaching, and that.
And the next one is known as Lungsambharma, great blazing space section of the tantaras. So those
are total, the very powerful essence of the teaching of the 19 tantaras, of this essence,
of the essence of the doki teachings. These teachings are then translated into Tibet,
in the time of the Tresong Devtins. And who, and time of Gaurabhema Sambo,
great master, Shendaraki, who both, who, who, who actually then taught these teachings. According
to
Tzokkyu's history, the three great master taught, the first time, this Tzok, the innocence, the
essence of the essence teaching to the Tibetan practitioners, three, by three master, those are
known as, both is Verochana, the great oscillator, and the second is, is Gaurabhema Sambo, and
third
is the Vamal Matras. When they give teaching, for these doki teachings, particularly among that
teaching, the first two, the mind and the space section, is particularly really taught by the
Verochanas. And then, second one, and not second one, sorry, the first and the second are taught
by the Verochana, and beat as the document section teaches, and taught by the Gaurabhema Sambo and
the Vamal Matras. And those are, in the first time, Vamal Matras give the teachings,
teachings, not again, with big groups, small groups, Tzokkyu Deppthi, and Nyamitung Rinzangko,
or poor students, he give the teachings. And then, Gaurabhema Sambo give this teaching
to Isheem Chodja, and Tzokkyu Deppthi, and his few sons. And particularly, he entrusted
one of the youngest daughter of the Tzokkyu Deppthi, passed away when he was eight years old,
but he bought by consciousness, and he trusted entirely the essence of it, sections of Tzokkyu
teachings to him, to him. So he received that, and most is hidden as thema teachings. So that's
how Tzokkyu teaching transmitted, and then it came. And then, particularly later, great master
Lung Chimpa, who was emanation, or reincarnation of the youngest daughter of the consciousness
who received the complete entire teaching of the Tzokkyu, the essence of essence,
essence which is known as "heart-draw of the dakinis." Khandro Ninte, true to this
youngest daughter, and Lung Chimpa discovered or received that in two things. And then, Lung
Chimpa is really known as "Second Garab Doji," or the obtibate, or Garab Doji obtibate. He
clarified, he condense it, bought everything perfectly in this section of the Tzokbit instruction
section of the Tzokkyu teachings to the students. Those are known as poor, great Tzokkyu teachings,
or essence or essence Tzokkyu teachings on Khandro Ninte. Those are the first one is
"Khandro Ninte," which is the heart essence teaching of the Garab and Masambhava. Second
is known as the "Bhama Ninte," heart essence of Muramata, which is, again, Tzokkyu teaching.
And then he made the commentary, which is known as "Second Lama Yante," and Khandro Yante is true.
And the essence of that, condense that one, is known as the Sammo Yante. Those teachings are
Lung Chimpa taught. And what those teachings explaining is Tzokkyu and Toga practices.
Tzokkyu is cutting thoroughly, technically, of course, and Toga is leaping over practices.
So these two are the essence of the Pith instruction sections.
Now, this Dunyulunga's teaching is Tzokkyu teachings of both Tzokkyu and Toga teaching
practices. This contains both of these teachings, teachings. And now, what I told to do myself,
and I'm going to go over these teachings, teachings specifically of the Tzokkyu sections
of these teachings. Toga section teachings is the seventh chapter or the seventh section of this
Shirek Doji number of "Sha'ap Weijer awareness," and maybe I won't go over that. Because there are
so many teachings, Toga teachings, already, and I just feel that I don't have really the capability
to do these Toga teachings on the internet and the Zoom. Even though I don't feel comfortable
in the capability to give Toga teachings, but so many great masters are teaching. And I just also
kind of follow with and honor lineage and honor to all the great masters of this order of those
teachings. So I hope that I'm not making too much trespassing and going over really something
totally
out of range. So I will try to do my best on this tricky part of the Tzokkyu teachings, but Toga
part
of the teaching, Tzokkyu teaching, as I said, I'm not going to talk over that. And as I said, I don
't
think so. I have capability to do this on the internet or the Zoom, so that you all know that.
I'm just going to tell that. Now Toga practice of this, sorry, Tzokkyu practices, what did the
teaching say? I'm talking, of course, the teaching will explain it, more we go through one after
another. But the essence of the Tzokkyu practices is known as will, meditation, conduct, and then
achieve the result. That is just I will highlight that now. Highlight that now that that's good for
all of us. And of course, you all know this. You all know this is not something I'm talking
new things. But since we are talking retreat and talking practice, practice of this, so it will
maybe let me remind you to continue practice of this week and then continue after the weeks.
Fourth is to recognize the will. Recognize the will is so important. It's a foundation.
And what in the teaching said? Jettawa want to innovate. Recognizing or identifying the will,
which is a foundation. What means foundation? Will is a foundation of our meditation.
Will is a foundation of our conduct. And will is dependent upon or is dependent
of our achievement, the result. So that means result and conduct and meditation all depended upon
will. A will is the mixed. Then it will mix the meditation. It will mix the mixed up, mixed up,
not mixed up mixed up the meditation. It will mix up the conduct. It will mix up the result.
Therefore, will is so, so important. Therefore, it's called the foundation.
And with Jettawa want to recognize the will or identifying the will of the which is foundation.
Once you have the will found, then we have meditated. Meditation is nothing but maintaining the
will.
Conduct is nothing but improving the meditation.
And then if we are not mixed up our will, if we are not mixed up our meditation,
if we are not mixed up our conduct, then we don't have to worry not going to achieve the result.
Result comes naturally and freely, openly comes. So therefore, will is so, so important. Number one
.
And now will, what that will. In the teaching generally they say, they
say the analytic will establish or discover the will with the analytics and throw all
discover the will through the simple technique of the pit instructions.
And this time, most of the time, we really following establish or discover the will
with the simple lineage instructions. That's what we're trying to do that most of the time.
Analytic means studying all the Buddha teachings. And particularly Dzokhi teaching or particularly
those philosophical teachings, Madimaka teachings, Pandyaparamata teachings.
Those are explained the will. Clearly, very strongly, with logically, with reasons,
with analytically explaining. Once you started those analytically and started,
then you put that contemplations. Contemplative means you put analyzing your own intelligence,
or our own intelligence. And mind is really kind of like dividing in this discover and
discriminating and finding out exactly where the teaching said and is proving that. So that is
analytic way. And to do that, and we don't have daily times and those we like to be easy approach,
easy, quick methods. So quick method is then the pit instructions.
Pit instruction. Those are what in the teaching said. Three
accurate is, or in the Tibetan, the Thema Sum.
Lamme Menga Thema and Dhamma Thema, Renga Rupa Thema. Those are the Thema in the Tibetan world,
which means that the accurate or the true, maybe Thema is, I think, maybe accurate. I'm
just going to translate it. If I found a nice kind of better world, I will let you know that in
this
video, maybe this way. Qualified lineage master, qualified instructions, and then,
and not qualified, this term, then accurate realizations, maybe these three. So qualified
lineage instruction. That means, again, lineage instruction is so important. Lineage. Because
lineage is, it means that every, those great practitioners kept the teaching exactly as it is,
without the spoiled by the intellectual, skeptical, and kind of their own analytical,
changed the world, this and that thing, and not mixed. In fact, authentic teaching, as is uttered,
uttered, or taught by the Saman Bhadara, Vajar Sattva, or Buddha Shakyamuni, and Garab Dorji,
and Garab Amma Sambaba, and Lunkimpa, that all came, exactly that same day, without changing,
without the structure, without alternating that. That is known as the qualified.
Masters who keep, or practitioners, not master, just not being the one single person,
master, maybe all trying to master of the realization, master of our knowledges of that.
So really kept that, with honor, with joy, with appreciation, not mixing our this, I want to do,
oh, it feels this, I like this, this, our feelings, our thought is not reliable, it changes.
It changes. It's not just, I'm talking that, how many thoughts and ideas changed in our lives,
in the sense beginning, we have the memories, until now, how many times changed? Really,
so many times changed. Every day is changing. It's not accurate, there's nothing to realize.
Every rely on that, and some kind of reasons of the worldly concern, of worldly, some benefit,
then we spoil, we spoil the natural. Natural, that is not correct, that is not. So therefore,
authentic teachings, teachings, or lineage qualified teachings, and then that qualified
lineage teach instructions, also authentic instructions, that we received,
authentic receipts, as we received, then one's own intelligence, one's own mind, put that,
and got it, got meaning on that. That is called Ranga Rupatshema. Ranga Rupatshema,
I want our own knowledge, really proved. That is, that is the simple technique
that discovered the view, view, Rupatshema. How they do that? That is then in this teaching,
explaining, on the teaching explaining, and we all received so many times, this is so key teaching.
We are not going to go the outskirts of the, to Australia, through the, from the outskirts,
gradually coming to the center. We are going to go the center of the bull's eye. That means what?
Center of the bulls eye of the universe or the world is our own mind. Our own mind is a center.
What that means? Everything what we see around, that is outer. The mind is the center. Your mind,
each of our mind is a center. Central, it is essential. So discover the view from the mind.
How that discovered that? Those are then the teaching mentioned. Where is the mind symbolism?
Where is the mind? Those are said, where mind is coming? Where is mind? Where is mind going or when
?
Every we look this past the person in the future, all three times are no answer. We become the
answer less. Speak less. That is view. Believe it or not, view is not something that we have to
hold
tangible things. If we hold something tangible, we don't find the view. That's it. If we don't
find anything, we speak less stateless, like center of the sky. Then we ponder. For that reason,
great teacher, Buddha said in the teaching, when you don't see anything, that is supreme seeing.
When talking in the view, I'm talking about Tomo Cho. You see the supreme. You really see the
supreme when you don't see. That means subject and object are merged. There's nothing. That's
discovered the view from the instructions of the lineage teachings. And then we also prove that.
That means our intelligence, we're talking this, we're not talking that it's methodologically or
somewhere else that we, our own intelligence proves there's nothing we can say about the mind.
We did not find. It's not something we did not find because we like to not find.
Buddha said, or because we did not find, because I like to be polite. That's not at all. Really,
we don't find. It's true. That is you proving. That means each of us proving.
That's it. That is not just we prove. That's what Buddha said. That's when Guru Pramma sambha said,
that was all those lineage master, all the Nagarjuna, sixth ornament of the Jambudip's
world, really said all those things. And all the 25 disciples of Mgurubhema sambha said.
And all the great master of all the schools of the Muslims,
they're so scholars, so intellectuals. They're thinkers. They're not just the believers.
Really, they have, in modern time, we can say they all like the best of the Physicists.
The Physicists, that's the discovery of the inner spaces, not just externals,
external and everything. They proved one after another. They sealed one after another.
It's true. There's nothing to find. That is reality. When we discover that god of this,
then that's what they called samsara nirvana. It's a joke, big jokes. There's nothing really
conflict, anything. It's like we can hold. But yet everything's functioning. Everything's,
nothing is changed on the relative levels. That's the beauty, the magical disciplines.
Fulfill all that. So that is, when we recognize that, then we keep up that. Those are in this
teaching explaining. Keep up all the teachings. See, we keep up that teaching with all the
relative levels and as up to levels. This is the absolute level we're talking. Just now,
not finding, all that. But relative level, everything's. For that reason, great master,
what the Taloba said to Naropa, even you got the highest realizations or realizations.
I think this is maybe not Naropa. This, of course, Naropa said that, but it's great master,
sara said that. Even you got the highest realizations of the unborns, but never,
never ignored the meritorious activities. Or that means six paramata practices.
That even you got highest realizations, not ignoring. For that reason, for example,
the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, he has highest realization in the Buddhism. There's
nothing higher than him. But he, how much he is humble, simple, following in the giving teaching
and explaining to the, guiding to the other students with good conduct, good meditation.
And the Buddha himself doing the same thing. In the teaching said that Buddha went to the city
and with mong and got the arms or the food and returned back to the hermitage, hermitage,
and cleaned the feet. That means bare feet Buddha is walking on the ground, ground with the old
students and come back. The hermitage whacked the feet and then he meditated. He's meditated.
Even though Buddha reach already in light state, but to show to us how important to maintain the
meritorious activities and respect the relative levels. Levels. Those are really teachings.
Teaching. And then all those great masters, we read life stories one after another, really.
Even they got highest realization. That is what. So now, again, go back to the, to this. Suppose
recognizing, recognizing or identify of the will. That is, so that, I mean, I'm just, you all know,
know this, but this is, again, to do this, even you got the realization, even you didn't completely
settle on that way. But supportive of the meritorious activities, such as devotion, bodhicitta,
all those so important, really devotion to the lineage, devotion, the teaching,
devotion to Dharma or Buddha, Dharma, Sangha is so important. And this is like that. Not just
devotion, okay, but sizzling devotion in heart and mind will bring the sizzling
realizations and achievements. That is, so not just a kind of this devotion is extra things. No,
it's so important that when you have the devotion, that means we are settled on the ground,
not wondering. We are not lingering. We're not just a bit unstable, shaky. We settled the
separation ground. Now we feel so joy and appreciate confidence and feel the richness of this. And
then
that's the devotion. Really appreciate them. Feel that from the heart. Sit down. And then when you
got that, then maintain the view is meditation. As I said early, and you know, meditation is not
any
extra. Maintain the view. Those are in the teaching said, said, "Mew some unshakable,
not shaky body." So that means good postures where you meditate, particularly in big time,
time, not shaky, not wondering of our senses, and then not shaky of our awareness. Relax,
calm and peaceful. Those are, we keep maintaining the view, keeping the view.
Once you have maintained that view with that way, and then the improve by the conduct,
conduct is not just on the side that on the distance. Conduct is right with the practitioners.
Conduct will boost the realization, boost the achievements. If you don't keep the conduct,
it will delay, it will mix up our meditation and our realizations. So therefore, conduct.
And the Dzokhi teaching, what is the best conduct? The great Master Baburul Mooji said in the
teaching,
again, I'm not just saying, but really said, stop liberating. Stop liberating. That means
when any thought and the conception comes, liberate it. What that means? Let it go.
If we don't let it go, that means we're holding. What we're holding? We're holding the samsara.
We're holding samsara, really. We're trying to hold that samsara. What that means, samsara,
because what comes in thought is a duality mind, dualities. Dualities are connected with
negative emotions, ignorance, attachment, anger, or maybe beats of those all different things.
That is duality, attachment, or whatever. If we hold that, we are maintaining the samsara.
We like to liberate the samsara. Liberate to what? In the Dzokhi teaching, I said that the dharma
kaya or the three kaya status. So liberate it. Who's going to liberate it? Nobody else is going
to liberate. What in the teaching said? Stop liberating. It means you or your mind, well,
let it go. Where'd it come from? All those thoughts and feelings. From mind. And we hold
by mind. And we let it go by mind. That's called self-liberating.
And then, in order to do that, what in the teaching said? Mindfulness.
Without too much effort, without too much forceful, relax the atmosphere with mindfulness.
Or samsara and the Dzokhi teaching, what we mentioned, original natural mind, not with
clinging, grasping. Keeping that flavour or that light in the meditation and relax.
Then we are really good practitioners, according to the teachings. And we are able to maintain that
.
And the post-meditation or along that, as I said, both each other devoting, sizzling devotions
and sizzling both each others. Even during the meditation, meditation or Dzokhi, bring up
sizzling devotions, sizzling both each other for a few seconds or a few minutes, and then let it go
.
Not lingering that again. Even if it's devoting, even if the body is not lingering on that,
let it go relaxing again. Same nature.
Natural state of mind. Those are the essence, heart, centre column of the Dzokhi meditation
that you all know, as I said, the mind. Now we go back again to this teaching. The
teaching of this, again, is Dunyulungkwa. How many of you already know Dunyulungkwa?
I talk really, again, this Dunyulungkwa. Dunyulungkwa is one of the great
masters or the Mahasiddhas, the Tertungs and the Virginaries. To be the Buddhist history,
all of these are Buddhist stories. Really one of them. And also, Kredi was the master. Kredi was
the
master. He was Mahasiddha, lay practitioners, every siddha, that. And he was born, I think,
around 1835. 1835. And he entered Mahaparin nirvana around 1904. He entered Mahaparin nirvana.
And the teaching said that, I mean, this is his own world. He said, "Until age nine,
nine, I was nurtured by so many Western rakinis,
so many Western rakinis, nurtured as a mother." So that. But in the teaching, the life story,
of course, I'm sure maybe you already read that, and it has so many visions, so many really, like,
he has magical displays, marvelous displays that you cannot think that. He performed so many things
when he was, in a few years old, dead and continuous. And around age nine,
nine or the two, the age, even in his own world, he received so many, many
empowerment, transmissions, teachings from many of those, in like, Buddhas, in Bodhisattvas.
And those are the ladies, the Buddhas, and the Sarajas, Garabham, Sambhavas. And
Awalokteshora, Majapani, I mean, really, those all great masters, great Buddhas, one after another,
you see. Around age, like, in the age, yeah, around age, in early 20s, maybe I shall say,
early 20s, until age 30, mid 30s, then he started discovering so many Thelma teachings,
one after another. Those Thelma teachings are visionary teachings, and the art or the,
from the object, the Thelma teachings, as well as from his verse remind Thelma teachings.
So he become the master of the rule of the Thelma discoveries. And from that onward,
then he were doing so many teachings and task meetings to the students, one after another,
until age 69. So those are the, really, he mentioned this, I said that. And then he was also one of
the,
he was the reincarnation or actually reincarnation of the many great masters in previous lifetimes.
He was born as so many great teenage masters or masters. And that first one is in the teaching
set. The Nudin Dorje is the very beginning of this one thousand Buddha. Buddha, and that is
Nudin Dorje. He was born as Nudin Dorje, master Nudin Dorje. He introduced, encouraged one thousand
bodhisattvas, and that's what they all developed the bodhisattva, and it is teaching from that
own world. This one thousand bodhisattva become the one thousand Buddhas of these fortunate eons
that many of you know. And during the Buddha's time, he was born as the great Shari putters.
And the Buddha's, the Buddha has so many great arathas, disciples, those who are arathas. But
among all the arathas in the Buddha, highly praised in the groom, that Shari putter is,
had the supreme power of the wisdom among all these students. So that he was born as Shari putters.
And then also Shari putter become the instrumentals of the Pandya Paramata teachings. He was like,
in the Buddha, in the, will give the one hundred thousand Buddha teachings of the Pandya Paramata,
and Shari putter was like, many times his dialogue, dialogue, or question and answer with Buddha,
to explore the profound teaching of the Pandya Paramata teachings. Anyway, along with that,
such as the condensed and hard Pandya Paramata teaching, is hard suttas. And hard suttas is
also, but Shari putter was the instrumentals to come, have these hard suttas teachings,
along with our lokthi choras that you, that. So, and in the time of the Gaurabhamma Sambhai,
at the century, a time of the great Master Shandarak in the Trasondi of the time,
and Shari, he's the new lungwa, was born as Chhechung Lhota. Chhechung Lhota. And in the teaching,
said that, that his sign of realization is he, through his meditation, and through his
power of compassion, the birds land so pretty, what's called, very friendly on his fingertips,
and which we have here illustrations. Every time illustrations of the 25 disciples,
Chhechung Lhota is lay practitioners, and disciple of the Gaurabhamma Sambhai and Shandarakita,
and lay practitioners holding the bird on his finger as his pinkles. His power of his realization
is powerful loves. When you have a compassion of love, loving kindness to all the sentient beings,
then everyone become friend. They not feel unkind of friendlies that they call the teaching. So,
that really is. And then he took so many different emanations, one after another. Or before that,
also in India, he was born Hongkaras, very famous yogi and a master of the Yanda Heruka,
among the, at Heruka, the Yanda Heruka, Hongkaras, and as well as the Saras in the teaching said.
And then, as then, also, after the Chhechung Lhota and before the the Dunyulunga, and then he
born so many great masters in the, in Tibet, really talk many, and some lay practitioners,
some among, such as Rongmu Chhuyi Janpakwa, as like very famous great master of the Sajja,
among the five great masters, Rongmu Chhuyi Janpakwa, and as well as then,
and Rongmu Tsangpa Jari of the Gaju, one of the Rokpa Gaju masters, and Trump Jim Khanna,
Heba Acheem Jung, and so many, I mean, you can read, the Chinese life, praise of the life story
of the, his own Dunyulunga of the Dunyulunga, you can read all those. And then, one of the foremost
,
again, great thetungs, reincarnation was the Dordi, poor Dunyulunga, very famous,
really thetung, the Dordis. And then, then, Dunyulunga was born, so this is the what,
Dunyulunga. And then, after that, Dunyulunga went into the Mahapari Nirvana, and then one
was really renowned, very famous one is his own Dunyulunga. But, however, I mean, that was,
he's also predicted by, in his visionary teachings, and he said, because Ekachati asked how many
your
lives do you talk past, and how many times you will take in the future, Ekachati asked in the
visionary, he answered in the visionary, and he said, I mentioned many of those, one after another,
I said those. And in the future, I will be reappeared again in the southern part of the Tibet,
and who will transform that area in the virtuous countries. So, truly, he was predicted upcoming
his, his own Dunyulunga. But then, Dunyulunga, also generally, when he entered Mahapari Nirvana,
he has five emanations, came, came around the same time, born, and those are, in the teaching
mentioned, body emanations, speech emanations, mind emanations, call, call it emanations,
as well as activity emanations. Among that, his whole Dunyulunga, on Jigbrachi Dhoji,
it was, was the mind emanation of the Dunyulunga, and which the many of you know,
and what is the teachings, and we become, who become the, one of the really famous, great
masters, Tetungs, that. And then, Dunyulunga, as he said, early, he was late practitioner,
Singapore. So, he has also many children. Among that, he has eight sons. Eight sons all become
great masters, great at, really, all of them. Even he said, many, some, many people, you say,
he has the eight sons as emanation of the eight bodhisattvas. Among that, the very famous one
is Thar Dhotrapchim, the Thar Dhotrapchim, who become really one of the famous, great
masters, masters of Thar Dhotrapchim, and then many of others, eight sons, sons. Among that is,
then, Truko Temi Hozars, or Truko Temis, and the Dandars, Dorje Dandars, one of them, maybe,
eight sons, who become, also, root teacher to the, his wholeness, Chhabra Rambuchi, that many
of you know, who say this, like, over 100 years, maybe 104, 100 years. So, that is, so that is
Dunyulunga, as a son. And then, his old teachings are connected, as there were over 20 volumes,
or 22 volumes. Among that, mostly popular, famous one is, I mean, not, maybe not just only that,
but
the Tumma, Black Tumma practices, Tumma Nama practices, is really the very famous. It is also
western mind tenmas, mind tenmas, kunter. And so, it's very, it's become so popular, not very
so popular, because it's so powerful, and so many benefits, uplifting. And in the teaching,
in pretty quickly, through the, this Tumma practices, there is 13 individually well-achieved
transcendental western rainbow bodies. Those are really great master's codes, that. And then,
so many countless are practitioner of calm. Those are pretty, that is true. Tumma becomes so
popular,
so powerful practices. Tumma is a Black, Vayyavarayi practice, or the Vayyavarayi practices,
practices.
And so, this also commonly known as Choo practice, Choo, Choo practice, and in this Choo practice
is
a very famous lineage, teachings in the Tibetan Buddhism. So Choo practices, that. So, and then,
as well as many Dzokhi teachings, Namjang is that. So, that is really talk, and now,
I go one short time, then I'm going to stop here too. But then, now, this is, now we go with it.
That today, I say this Dzokhint kind of essence of Dzokhint instructions, is not just, I said,
but is there really more coming in these teachings that you already know those things. So,
but I thought, because it is, it's kind of, let us big text, or not, I mean, not big, big,
but it's a big thing. So, maybe to reach to those stages, we will take a lot of time. So, I thought
,
maybe, those who are kind of a little bit new, or particularly, I mean, we like to meditate. It is
sound a little more meditative, activate it. So, I thought to tell that maybe somebody will help,
but that's my consumption. Thought maybe help to tell that. So, I said those, recognize the view,
and maintain the meditation, and then liberating technique of the contrast, and
with all the effort of the mindfulness, those are mentioned there. So, but this is what's coming in
Dzokhint. And now, we go just this short one, and the short, I mean, just then, of course, we go
talk
about this a little bit more, as much as we can. So, this title is, and translated, this here,
From the Net of the Pure Awareness and Premodural Wisdom, the Premodural Pure Expense of the Sum
and
the Badri, the Sapantenas, a Complicate Treasury of Dzokhint, the Shavwajara of the Awareness Tant
ra,
the Contrasts of the Great Secretary of Mantryana. So, those are titles. I think you, you know,
you see that. Those are all titles. First, in it a bit, I mean, I go with two items here, so,
as much as I can. And, but then it will cover this, this meaning. First, it is, here I said, pure
vision, and first one is what, if I translate it, kamai, direct kamai, kind of broken English, that
,
from the nets of the illusion of the purity, pure perception of pure. That's my kind of direct
translation of these things. So, now it's said pure perceptions. So, this teaching
come from as pure perceptions. What is this teaching is? In the category of the, in the
according Numa. In the Numa teaching is divided into two sections, or the way the, I mean,
teaching is not just that, with practice, a part of the Numa teaching is divided in
two sections, kamai and tenmaa, that many of you know. Kamaa means the order transmission.
Order transmission, that means from the master to the student, from the master to the student,
or from the practitioner to the practitioner to the practitioners,
continue created as normal, regular channel in the world we do. Teacher taught the student,
and that become the teacher, and taught to the others, and then continually that, so that is called
oral. Again, oral is, as I said, it's not just diluted by the different conceptions, adding
throughout generations. As I said, lineage teaching, preserved, keep the integrity, call
it, up exactly as it is. And always in the teaching said that, teaching is natural,
teaching is stainless, teaching is like refined purified water, which has add colitis,
kept that continually. Why? Because this teaching is taught to clear with the emotions, clear with
obscurations, clear with negative emotions, emotions such as ignorance, attachment, anger,
jealous, and hated thoughts, arrogance, skeptical. And that skeptical, that emotion is never
changed
from the time of the Buddha, and until now, which ending things are changed, or our poems are
changed,
but our emotions stay the same, maybe adding more stronger, stronger and stronger. So therefore,
the chain of the, chain of our consciousness of this duality, mind never changed.
Our poem of the body changed, it's a lifetime, but mind stays, but this emotion, talking. So this
teaching clarified, purified that time, and this time, it's no need to add anything that,
every added more is consumption, dualities. Duality add more dualities,
and the emotion add more emotions, it won't. So therefore, in the teaching always that
authenticness of the lineage teaching preserve is so important. And also in the teaching said,
teacher, qualified teachers, one who keep the, qualified teacher is one who keeping the lineage
teaching exactly as said. For that reason, great master Shanti Deva said, what is the qualification
of the, the qualification of the bodhisattva, or qualification of the teacher of the bodhisattva
jhana or Mahayana? One who keep the vows on the bodhisattva perfectly, and they even the
cost relax, cost relax, never give up the vows of the bodhisattva. That is the qualified master,
teacher of the bodhisattva jhanas. Really simplified, simple, short, short. So that is,
and also qualified student. And the teaching is one who keep the teaching exactly as it is.
That is qualified teachers, exactly as it is with that. So therefore, therefore, these teaching in
the nimma kamma is, that is how preserved kamma teachings continue. Thelma teaching is, has
three, three thelma teachings. Thelma means hidden, discovered. And that is, thelma is then,
that many of you know, thelma. And then there is second teaching is, is mind thelma. And then pure
vision. So three different. Thelma is a thelma, and that many indicating thelma, that hidden by the
gurup and the sambhava, what's in recognition. Soja, on the rocky mountain, in the lake, on the
tree,
on the earth, through their magical powers, what's the power hidden, and then connect with those
beings, rediscover those teachings, or those treasures, as the kind of named thelma, popular.
Then mind thelma, guntara, in the spirit of guntara, what that means, mind thelma.
That means, the gurup and the sambhava, hidden, that thelma teaching,
teaching to the mind streams of those individualists. What that means, mind system.
Gurup and thelma sambhava did not heeded thelma teaching to the duality mind systems.
But the gurup and thelma sambhava were heeded to the old and the absolute mind,
all these like, darshan yung guo, dathanga, the garbage state of the individual.
That is thelma. It's not conceptual level. Why conceptual level? Because conceptual changes.
That is unstable. It dilute it. But once you hidden this, for example, his own union, which
discovered this magical eye teaching, he teaching, what in the vision in teaching said that he was
integral nest in the Bhutan, that in his practice, practicing, in the dream, young lady came,
in the mind appears is lishim sahaja. She pulled him from the hand.
Hand, that you remember, that you received the entirely teaching of the off,
teachings of the teachings on the guru and teachings on the dukkin and magical eye teaching
in it is it and hidden in your western mind that you remember, she pulled up
and handed all over purpose. That's it. So that is that. Remember, it's not that he's
only discovered that from his external duality mind. I'm sure he don't have the duality, but
it's hidden the Twitter with his absolute city of tathagabha state. That's what his whole
journey discovered. It's an indestructible state discovered. So that is known as mind term.
That is and he also discovered and many of Yumi Lang Kwa's teachings are also known as
gundar. So it's not duality status. It's a state discovered and a tang thing in a Tibetan and a
translated in English, I'm translating as a pure perception or pure appearance. Pure appearance is
also really good. Pure appearance, pure appearance. So this pure appearance, what that means,
it's not just those have highest realization. Those have the realization their appearance
become the pure. It's not just occasionally pure perception comes and then comes goes away
and come back to as we see things. It is really seeing the way things are.
What that means the way things are? All is enlightened status. All is enlightened.
All in the nature is enlightened as we see it. That's what we visualize. Everything is
enlightened status. Even though it's a visualize this economy in the way imagination way,
but that is lined up the way things are. That's why we're in the visualization world walk.
Then it brings the reality goal where we think. So this is not just occasionally comes and then
goes away. He is his realization. Those were seeing everything purely status.
This is standard Buddhism teaching. When you reach higher realization boomies one after another,
your purity external is changes. When as we think change inwardly improve and purify the
obscurations and things external also change as like our jaundices. When you have the jaundice
problems, we don't see things exactly we could see. But when the jaundice is a clearing way
and things will become clay and clay and clay, this is not just occasionally arising.
Clay and clay. But at the end time we are have the jaundice of the dualities
that blocking our reality view or nature views. But then you look up
his view is it's pure. That's it. But I mean and then what happened is when Buddha see everything
so clearly and beautiful perfectly exactly where things are. So then Buddha is always a pure way.
No, Buddha see where things are as his way and Buddha see where things we see.
That's why Buddha give the teachings and guide support to us. That's called beauty and the power
of the enlightenment qualities. So this is the come from that teaching teaching teaching and
that's my breach of the protruding and thank you very much everyone again for participating thank
you
thank you very much everyone thank you thank you thank you thank you we do again few minutes
meditation and then we do short dedication I don't know you you have this we're going to
join this prayer that is swept the supplication prayer for the swept return of the chapter
we're going to join if you don't have I mean then we'll make sure that you will get this
this copy that so you will we will join that too okay thank you
[BLANK_AUDIO]